docs: :memo: edits while reviewing "getting started" (#211)
dp-next/registers2parquet: vignettes/fastreg.qmd

  %\VignetteEncoding{UTF-8}
---

```{r setup}
#| include: false
show_tree <- function(dir) {
  withr::with_dir(fs::path_dir(dir), {
    fs::dir_tree(fs::path_file(dir))
  })
}

> ```

Reviewer: Nice 👍

> One of the main purposes of fastreg is to ease the conversion of SAS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main purpose of fastreg is to ease the conversion of SAS
```
What else would be another main purpose?

  frameworks in [R](https://www.r-project.org/),
  [Python](https://www.python.org/), and beyond, making it easy to
  integrate into modern workflows.

## Setup

For the examples below, we've simulated SAS register data for two
registers, `kontakter` and `diagnoser`:

```{r prepare}
#| code-fold: true
#| code-summary: "Show setup code"
library(fastreg)

sas_dir <- fs::path_temp("sas-dir")
fs::dir_create(sas_dir)

kontakter_list <- simulate_register(
  "kontakter",
  c("", "1999_1", "1999_2", "2020"),
  n = 1000
)

diagnoser_list <- simulate_register(
  "diagnoser",
  c("2020", "2021"),
  n = 1000
)

save_as_sas(
  c(kontakter_list, diagnoser_list),
  sas_dir
)
```

```{r setup-tree}
#| echo: false
show_tree(sas_dir)
```

## Converting a single file

Converting one file from SAS to Parquet in fastreg isn't a simple change
of file extension. We make use of Parquet's Hive partitioning to
organise the output by year, for easier querying and management. So the
output Parquet file is written to a subdirectory named after the year
extracted from the file name. You use the `convert_file()` function to
convert a single file to an output directory and the function will

> create the Parquet file in the correct partition format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
extracted from the file name. Use the `convert_file()` function to
convert a single SAS file to a year-partitioned Parquet format:
```

└── year=__HIVE_DEFAULT_PARTITION__/
    └── part-a8d52c.parquet
```

## Converting multiple registers in parallel

For many or large files, fastreg provides a
[targets](https://docs.ropensci.org/targets/) pipeline template that
parallelises conversion across CPU cores. By default it uses 10 workers,
but that can be adjusted in the pipeline in the `_targets.R` file to not
consume too many cores on a shared server.

To create the pipeline file, you can use the `use_targets_template()`

> function. In this example, we're outputting it to a temporary file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function. In this example, we're outputting it to a temporary directory.
```

template_content <- readLines(fs::path(pipeline_dir, "_targets.R"))
modified_content <- template_content |>
  stringr::str_replace("/path/to/register/sas/files/directory", config$input_dir) |>
  stringr::str_replace("/path/to/output/directory", config$output_dir)

withr::with_dir(pipeline_dir, {
  writeLines(modified_content, "_targets.R")
  targets::tar_make(callr_function = NULL, reporter = "silent")
})
```

> The pipeline will find all SAS files from all the registers listed and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pipeline will find all SAS files from `input_dir` and
```
